.TH AFsetSpeaker - libtsp (3tsp)
.SH Routine:
int AFsetSpeaker(const char String[])
.SH Purpose:
Set loudspeaker spatial positions
.SH Description:
This routine sets the mapping of output channels to speaker positions. The
spatial positions of the loudspeakers are specified as a list of comma and/or
white-space separated locations from the list below.
.ft CW
.nf
           Name                    IEC 62574  AES 22.2  WAVE Ext
   FL    - Front Left                1        1/1     1     0x1
   FR    - Front Right               2        1/2     2     0x2
   FC    - Front Center              3        2/1     3     0x4
   LFE1  - Low Frequency Effects-1   4        2/2     4     0x8
   BL    - Back Left                 5        3/1     5    0x10
   BR    - Back Right                6        3/2     6    0x20
   FLc   - Front Left center         7        4/1     7    0x40
   FRc   - Front Right center        8        4/2     8    0x80
   BC    - Back Center               9        5/1     9   0x100
   LFE2  - Low Frequency Effects-2  10        5/2
   SiL   - Side Left                11        6/1    10   0x200
   SiR   - Side Right               12        6/2    11   0x400
   TpFL  - Top Front Left           13        7/1    12   0x800
   TpFR  - Top Front Right          14        7/2    13  0x1000
   TpFC  - Top Front Center         15        8/1    14  0x2000
   TpC   - Top Center               16        8/2    15  0x4000
   TpBL  - Top Back Left            17        9/1    16  0x8000
   TpBR  - Top Back Right           18        9/2    17 0x10000
   TpSiL - Top Side Left            19       10/1
   TpSiR - Top Side Right           20       10/2
   TpBC  - Top Back Center          21       11/1    18 0x20000
   BtFC  - Bottom Front Center      22       11/2
   BtFL  - Bottom Front Left        23       12/1
   BtFR  - Bottom Front Right       24       12/2
   FLw   - Front Left wide          25
   FRw   - Front Right wide         26
   LS    - Left Surround            27
   RS    - Right Surround           28
   LSd   - Left Surround direct     29
   RSd   - Right Surround direct    30
   TpLS  - Top Left Surround        31
   TpRS  - Top Right Surround       32
   -     - No speaker assigned
.fi
.ft P
A speaker position can be associated with only one channel. For compatibility
with previous usage, some synonyms are applicable. For instance
.ft CW
.nf
   LF       -> LFE1
   SL/SR    -> SiL/SiR
   TFL/TFR  -> TpFL/TpFR
   TBL/TFR -> TpBL/TpBR
.fi
.ft P
The following names can be used to set a speaker location configuration.
.ft CW
.nf
  "1.0-mono"       -> "FC"
  "2.0-stereo"     -> "FL FR"
  "4.0-quad"       -> "FL FR BL BR"
  "5.1-surround"   -> "FL FR FC LFE1 BL BR"
  "5.1+4-surround" -> "FL FR FC LFE1 BL BR TpFL TpFR TpBL TpBR"
  "7.1-surround"   -> "FL FR FC LFE1 BL BR SiL SiR"
  "7.1+4-surround" -> "FL FR FC LFE1 BL BR SiL SiR TpFL TpFR TpBL TpBR"
.fi
.ft P
.in +3n
.ti -3n
WAVE extensible files:
.br
.in -3n
These files can store the speaker locations in the file header if certain
constraints are in place.
.ft CW
.nf
  Available speaker locations:
    "FL FR FC LFE1 BL BR FLc FRc BC SiL SiR TpC TpFL TpFC TpFR,
    TpBL, TpBC, TpBR"
  Channels:
    If M speaker locations are specified, they must be associated with the
    first M audio channels.
  Speaker Location Order:
    The speaker locations must be in the same order as the list, but locations
    can be skipped. As an example, the order "FL FR TpC" is valid, but
    "FL FC FR" is not.
.fi
.ft P
.in +3n
.ti -3n
AIFF-C files:
.br
.in -3n
Speaker locations are implicit in AIFC-C audio files.
.ft CW
.nf
   Stereo: "FL FR"
   3 channel: "FL FR FC"
   Quadraphonic" "FR FR BL BR"
   4 channel surround: "FL FC FR BC"
   6 channel surround: "FL FLc FC FR FRc BC"
.fi
.ft P
.in +3n
.ti -3n
AU, AIFF, AIFF-C, and WAVE (non-extensible):
.br
.in -3n
Speaker locations appear as an information record of the form,
.ft CW
.nf
   "loudspeakers: FL FR LFE1"
.fi
.ft P
This speaker location record is one of the standard information records which
appear in the file header.
.SH Parameters:
.in +3n
.ti -3n
<-  int AFsetSpeaker
.br
Error flag, zero for no error
.ti -3n
 -> const char String[]
.br
String containing the comma and/or white-space separated list of speaker
positions
.in -3n
.SH Author / revision:
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.29  2023-03-23
.SH See Also
AFopnWrite,
libtsp
